Mixture-of-Agents Enhances Large Language Model

Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) demonstrate substantial capabilities in natural language understanding and generation tasks. With the growing
number of LLMs, how to harness the collective expertise of multiple LLMs is an
exciting open direction. Toward this goal, we propose a new approach that leverages the collective strengths of multiple LLMs through a Mixture-of-Agents (MoA)
methodology. In our approach, we construct a layered MoA architecture wherein
each layer comprises multiple LLM agents. Each agent takes all the outputs from
agents in the previous layer as auxiliary information in generating its response.
MoA models achieves state-of-art performance on AlpacaEval 2.0, MT-Bench and
FLASK, surpassing GPT-4 Omni. For example, our MoA using only open-source
LLMs is the leader of AlpacaEval 2.0 by a substantial gap, achieving a score of
65.1% compared to 57.5% by GPT-4 Omni.1

1/  Introduction : 

Large language models (LLMs) (Zhang et al., 2022a; Chowdhery et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023a;
Team et al., 2023; Brown et al., 2020; OpenAI, 2023) have significantly advanced the field of natural
language understanding and generation in recent years. These models are pretrained on vast amounts
of data and subsequently aligned with human preferences to generate helpful and coherent outputs
(Ouyang et al., 2022). However, despite the plethora of LLMs and their impressive achievements,
they still face inherent constraints on model size and training data. Further scaling up these models is
exceptionally costly, often requiring extensive retraining on several trillion tokens.
At the same time, different LLMs possess unique strengths and specialize in various tasks aspects.
For instance, some models excel at complex instruction following (Xu et al., 2023a) while others may
be better suited for code generation (Roziere et al., 2023; Guo et al., 2024). This diversity in skill sets
among different LLMs presents an intriguing question: Can we harness the collective expertise of
multiple LLMs to create a more capable and robust model?
Our answer to this question is Yes. We identify an inherent phenomenon we term the collaborativeness
of LLMs — wherein an LLM tends to generate better responses when presented with outputs
from other models, even if these other models are less capable by itself. Figure 1 showcases
the LC win rate on the AlpacaEval 2.0 benchmark (Dubois et al., 2024) for 6 popular LLMs.
1Our code can be found in: https://github.com/togethercomputer/moa.
